Update the migration guide and quick start guide for Modular (#36079)
Azure/azure-sdk-for-js: documentation/MIGRATION-guide-for-modularized-libraries.md

> # Guide for migrating to the modularized libraries of Azure JavaScript SDK

Reviewer: # Guide for migrating to code generation from TypeSpec (Azure JavaScript SDK)

> 

Reviewer: Maybe a Terminology section can be helpful here

```suggestion

> **Terminology used in this guide**
>
> - **Libraries generated from TypeSpec**: Client libraries produced by the **TypeSpec Emitter** (the new generation toolchain).  
>   Previously referred to as *“modular”/“modularized libraries.”*
> - **Libraries generated with AutoRest**: Client libraries produced by the **AutoRest Code Generator** (previous generation).  
>   Previously referred to as *“HLC”, "Swagger generator", "OpenAPI Generator"*
```

> This guide helps developers transition their JavaScript/TypeScript applications to use the modularized Azure SDK libraries, also known as Modular SDKs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide helps developers transition their JavaScript/TypeScript applications to use the *TypeSpec generated* Azure SDK libraries.
```

> **For new customers of the JavaScript/TypeScript SDK ([azure-sdk-for-js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js)), please see [quick start guide for modularized libraries](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/documentation/modularized-libraries-quickstart.md).**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**For new customers of the JavaScript/TypeScript SDK ([azure-sdk-for-js](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js)), please see [quick start guide](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/main/documentation/modularized-libraries-quickstart.md).**
```

## Current status

> Several packages released from Modular libraries have already reached General Availability (GA), including `@azure/arm-avs`, `@azure/arm-fabric`, `@azure/arm-oracledatabase`, `@azure/keyvault-admin`. We are actively working on releasing more packages and eventually cover all Azure services. Please find the latest version of those libraries in [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) and give them a try.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Several packages generated from *TypeSpec* have already reached General Availability (GA), including `@azure/arm-avs`, `@azure/arm-fabric`, `@azure/arm-oracledatabase`, `@azure/keyvault-admin`. We are actively working on releasing more packages and eventually cover all Azure services. Please find the latest version of those libraries in [npm](https://www.npmjs.com) and give them a try.
```

## Why switching to the modularized libraries?

> We recommend reviewing the [complete guide for the modularized libraries](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/azure-sdk/azure-sdk-modularized-libraries-for-javascript/) for full details. Compared to the traditional libraries, Modular SDKs have following key benefits:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend reviewing the [complete guide](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/azure-sdk/azure-sdk-modularized-libraries-for-javascript/) for full details. Compared to libraries generated with *Autorest*, *TypeSpec code generation* has following key benefits:
```

> 1. Subpath exports: Modular SDKs use [subpath exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#subpath-exports)(available since Node.js version 12.7) to offer layered APIs. In which service client layer from `.` root subpath would provide similar experience to traditional client. And the API layer from `./api` subpath would provide more lightweight client context for shared state across operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Subpath exports: Libraries now use [subpath exports](https://nodejs.org/api/packages.html#subpath-exports)(available since Node.js version 12.7) to offer layered APIs. In which service client layer from `.` root subpath would provide similar experience to traditional client. And the API layer from `./api` subpath would provide more lightweight client context for shared state across operations.
```

> 1. Bundle size optimization: Modular SDKs leverage @azure-rest/core-client, which offers improved bundle size efficiency compared to the previous Azure core libraries. This core package provides a general-purpose REST client, while each service-specific package includes its own TypeScript type definitions. These TypeScript types are excluded from the final asset bundle, helping to minimize overall bundle size.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Bundle size optimization: By leveraging the new `/api` subpath export, developers can selectively import only the operations they need. This approach minimizes the overall library footprint in the application bundle, ensuring that only the required pieces are included.
```

1. Long-running operations: Instead of two methods (beginDoSth and beginDoSthAndWait) in the traditional clients for each long-running operation, which are both redundant and confusing to customers. Modular SDKs offer a single method (doSth) that supports both async and sync usage.

## How to migrate to the modularized libraries?

If you're updating an existing app to use Modular SDKs, focus on these areas:

1. Long-running Operations
1. List Operations
1. Model Property Flattening

> ### Long-running Operations

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Long-running Operations (LROs)
```

> Many operations may take a long time to finish before receiving the desired response. Instead of two methods (beginDoSth and beginDoSthAndWait) for each long-running operation, Modular SDKs offer a single method (doSth) that supports both async and sync usage. The changes mainly are three parts:

Author: ```suggestion
Many operations may take a long time to finish before receiving the desired response named long-running operations. We re-designed LRO in Modular SDKs. The changes mainly are three parts:
```

- Method signature changes
- LRO poller changes from SimplePollerLike to PollerLike
- Rehydration changes

> #### Method signature changes
> 
> Taking a simple LRO operation as an example with operationId `IntegrationRuntimes_Start`. In traditional client we would have two methods([link](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/8c1c0027d79354d2b91b318c4ceb52e462f7db92/sdk/datafactory/arm-datafactory/src/operationsInterfaces/integrationRuntimes.ts#L193)).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Method signature changes
Previously (libraries generated with **AutoRest**), each LRO exposed two methods (e.g., `beginStart` and `beginStartAndWait`).  
Now (libraries generated from **TypeSpec**), there’s a **single** method that behaves as a poller **and** can be directly awaited.

**AutoRest‑generated (previous)**  
```

```ts
beginStart(
    options?: IntegrationRuntimesStartOptionalParams,
  ): Promise<
    SimplePollerLike<
      OperationState<IntegrationRuntimesStartResponse>,
      IntegrationRuntimesStartResponse
    >
  >;
beginStartAndWait(
    options?: IntegrationRuntimesStartOptionalParams,
  ): Promise<IntegrationRuntimesStartResponse>;
```
Now we would only have one method in Modular SDK.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Migrate your usage**
```ts
// Before (AutoRest-generated)
const result = await beginStartAndWait();

const poller = await beginStart();
const result2 = await poller.pollUntilDone();

// After (TypeSpec-generated)
const result = await start();           // awaiting returns the final result
const poller = start();                 // direct access to the poller
await poller.submitted();               // optional: await initial submission
const result2 = await poller;           // or: await poller.pollUntilDone()
```
```

| access the current state after receiving the response of each poll request | `onProgress()`        | `onProgress()`    |
| check whether the operation finished                                       | `isDone()`            | `isDone`          |
| stop polling                                                               | `stopPolling()`       | N/A               |
| check if the polling stopped                                               | `isStopped()`         | N/A               |
| get the current operation state                                            | `getOperationState()` | `operationState`  |
| access the final result                                                    | `getResult()`         | `result`          |
| serialize the poller state                                                 | `toString()`          | `serialize()`     |
| wait the poller submitted successfully                                     | N/A                   | `submitted()`       |

Please note the operation `getOperationState(): TState` is changed to attribute `operationState: TState | undefined`, so the value could be `undefined` if the poller is not initialized yet.

```ts

> const status = poller.getOperationState().status;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// Before
const status = poller.getOperationState().status;
```

```

now

```ts
const status = poller?.operationState?.status;
```

If you want to serialize a poller, use the `serialize` instead.

```ts
const serializeState = poller.toString();
```

now

```ts
const serializeState = await poller.serialize();
```

> #### Rehydration change

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Rehydration (restoring a poller)
```

#### Remove un-supported maxpagesize in PageSetting
The `maxpagesize` is not supported in traditional client so in Modular we remove this setting within PageSettings. These changes are supposed to have no impact for customers.

#### Remove the helper `getContinuationToken`
In traditional client we build an util function to help customers to get the continuation token([here](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/735677407c4fbbceea95200f6d6de00e29804740/sdk/datadog/arm-datadog/src/pagingHelper.ts#L22-L29)).

So we could reference the token by code.

```ts
const firstPage = await iter.byPage().next();
const continuationToken = getContinuationToken(firstPage);
```

Now we directly deliver the `continuationToken` with byPage return.

```ts
export type ContinuablePage<TElement, TPage = TElement[]> = TPage & {
  /**
   * The token that keeps track of where to continue the iterator
   */
  continuationToken?: string;
};
```
So we could reference the token like below:
```ts
const firstPage = await iter.byPage().next();
const continuationToken = firstPage.value.continuationToken;
```

## Model Property Flattening

> Client libraries represent entities transferred to and from Azure services as model types. For the model types, in the traditional client we have supported the autorest extension [x-ms-client-flatten](https://azure.github.io/autorest/extensions/#x-ms-client-flatten). This extension allows to flatten deeply nested payloads into a top-level object structure. For example a payload that looks like this on the wire:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, **libraries generated with AutoRest** supported the `x-ms-client-flatten` extension, which allowed deeply nested payloads to be flattened into a top-level object structure. For example, a payload like this:
```

```json
{
  "hcxEnterpriseSite": {
    "name": "hcxEnterpriseSiteName",
    "properties": {
      "provisioningState": "succeed",
      "activationKey": "value2",
      "status": "ok"
    },
  },
}
```
Can be transformed into the following client model and see [generated code](https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/835b3dca8d8c635c1471a8264b025409a75298fc/sdk/avs/arm-avs/src/models/index.ts#L1196C1-L1213C2):
```ts
/** An HCX Enterprise Site resource */
export interface HcxEnterpriseSite extends ProxyResource {
  /**
   * The provisioning state of the resource.
   * NOTE: This property will not be serialized. It can only be populated by the server.
   */
  readonly provisioningState?: HcxEnterpriseSiteProvisioningState;
  /**
   * The activation key
   * NOTE: This property will not be serialized. It can only be populated by the server.
   */
  readonly activationKey?: string;
  /**
   * The status of the HCX Enterprise Site
   * NOTE: This property will not be serialized. It can only be populated by the server.
   */
  readonly status?: HcxEnterpriseSiteStatus;
}
```

> Modular SDKs no longer support flattening to reduce confusion and maintenance overhead. So now [the model](https://github.com/azure/azure-sdk-for-js/blob/181311fe630b5609e78d55306ad2242bb881dacf/sdk/avs/arm-avs/src/models/models.ts#L3171-L3174) would be generated like below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What changed?
**Libraries generated from TypeSpec** no longer support client-side flattening. This decision was based on customer feedback to reduce confusion and maintenance overhead. Models now preserve the original structure, so properties are grouped under a `properties` object (as defined in TypeSpec):
```

```ts
/** An HCX Enterprise Site resource */
export interface HcxEnterpriseSite extends ProxyResource {
  /** The resource-specific properties for this resource. */
  properties?: HcxEnterpriseSiteProperties;
}

/** The properties of an HCX Enterprise Site */
export interface HcxEnterpriseSiteProperties {
  /** The provisioning state of the resource. */
  readonly provisioningState?: HcxEnterpriseSiteProvisioningState;
  /** The activation key */
  readonly activationKey?: string;
  /** The status of the HCX Enterprise Site */
  readonly status?: HcxEnterpriseSiteStatus;
}
```

> Which means for these changes, we need to update our code from `result.activationKey` to `result.properties?.activationKey`. So the before-and-after code would be like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What does this mean for you?
Update your code to access nested properties through `properties`. For example:
```

```ts
// traditional client
const result = await client.hcxEnterpriseSites.get("resourceGroupName", "privateCloudName", "hcxEnterpriseSiteName");
console.log(result.activationKey);

// Modular client
const result = await client.hcxEnterpriseSites.get("resourceGroupName", "privateCloudName", "hcxEnterpriseSiteName");
console.log(result.properties?.activationKey);
```

> Please note for Azure models, majority of property flatten happened in `properties` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Tip:** In most Azure resource models, flattening occurred under the `properties` bag, so expect to adjust references accordingly.```
